# Timeline for the topics


# Traditional Learning 

> Remember, you cannot rush the traditional learning since it is slowly paced by design. But also do not spend so much time on a single topic and go down in the rabbit hole. Try to learn it have an understanding of what is what. Read all of the top recommended resoruces and do a mini project.

- [ ] Algorithms and Data Structures
  - [ ] Reimplement Algorithms n Data Structures [from here](https://github.com/trekhleb/javascript-algorithms) in C++
- [ ] Computer Architecture
  - [ ] Basic Ardunio Project
  - [ ] Very advanced Ardunio Project
  - [ ] Build a mini 8 bit computer
- [ ] Operating Systems
  - [ ] Expand your Computer to 32
  - [ ] Add monitors, keyboards ... etc.
  - [ ] Write a very basic OS for that Computer.
- [ ] Computer Networking
  - [ ] Build your own little internet
  - [ ] Hosts some static sites on them
- [ ] Databases
  - [ ] Build a basic database like SQLite
- [ ] Langauge and Compilers
  - [ ] Build a basic Interpreter and a interpreted Language
  - [ ] Build a basic Compiler and Compiled Language
- [ ] Distrubuted Systems
- [ ] Code University

<br>
<br>

# PBL Theory

> Always Divide and Conquer and tackle each part. Try to keep a developer log and try to tell it in a more tutorial kind of way rather than a documentation so that you will know where you messed up in case of a bug. 

- [ ] Minecraft Clone
- [ ] Database
- [ ] Web Server 
- [ ] Web Framework 
- [ ] Reddit Clone 
- [ ] *Final Project*: your web server, database, framework, site on top if is all parts of a city like security (police), water plumbing - electicity (scalablity with algorithms). Improve each part of it so that the site can hold millions of requests in a day without breaking. (The traffic will be generated by bots)
