# Networking 

- Modern world scenario is ever changing. Data Communication and network have changed the way business and other daily affair works. Now, they highly rely on computer networks and internetwork.
  
  >A set of devices often mentioned as nodes connected by media link is called a Network.
  
- A node can be a device which is capable of sending or receiving data generated by other nodes on the network like a computer, printer etc. These links connecting the devices are called `Communication channels`. Computer network is a telecommunication channel using which we can share data with other coomputers or devices, connected to the same network. It is also called Data Network. The best example of computer network is Internet.
   
   A network must be able to meet certain criterias, these are mentioned below:
   - Performance 
   - Reliability
   - Scalability
   
### Computer Networks: Performance

- It can be measured in the following ways:
  - `Transit Time`: It is the time taken to travel a message from one device to another.
  - `Response Time`:  It is defined as the time elapsed between enquiry and response.
  
- Other ways to measure performance are :
  - Efficiency of software
  - Number of users
  - Capability of connected hardware
 
### Computer Networks: Relability

- It decides the frequency at which network failure take place. More the failures are, less is the network's reliability.
 
### Computer Networks: Security

- It refers to the protection of data from any unauthorised user or access. While travelling through network, data passes many layers of network, and data can be traced if attempted. Hence security is also a very important characteristic for Networks.
 
### Properties of a good network

- `Interpersonal Communication:`: We can communicate with each other efficiently and easily. Example: emails, chat rooms, video conferencing etc, all of these are possible because of computer networks.
- `Resources can be shared:` We can share physical resources by making them available on a network such as printers, scanners etc.
- `Sharing files, data:` Authorised users are allowed to share the files on the network.
 
### Basic Comminucation Model

- A Communication model is used to exchange data between two parties:
  ```
  Source -- Transmitter -- Transmisson Sys -- Receiver -- Destination
  ```
  
- Basic comminucation model components:
  - `Source` - Data to be transmitted is generated by this device, example: telephones, personal computers etc.
  - `Transmitter` - The data generated by the source system is not directly transmitted in the form its generated. The transmitter transforms and encodes the data in such a form to produce electromagnetic waves or signals.
  - `Transmission Sys` - A transmission system can be a single transmission line or a complex network connecting source and destination.
  - `Receiver` - Receiver accepts the signal from the transmission system and converts it into a form which is easily managed by the destination device.
  - `Destination` - Destination receives the incoming data from the receiver.
 
### Data Communication

- The exchange of data between two devices through a transmission medium is called `Data Communication`. The data is exchanged in the form of `0`'s and `1`'s. The transmission medium used is wire cable. For data communication to occur, the communication device must be a part of a communication system. Data Communication has two types - `Local` and `Remote`

- `Local` - Local communication takes place when the communicating devices are in the same geographical area, same building, or face-to-face etc.

- `Remote` - Remote communication takes place over a distance i.e. the devices are farther. The effectiveness of a data communication can be measured through the following features :
  - Delivery: Delivery should be done to the correct destination. 
  - Timeliness: Delivery should be on time.
  - Accuracy: Data delivered should be accurate.

### Components of a Data Comminucation

Component:
  - `Message`: It is the information to be delivered.
  - `Sender`: Sender is the person who is sending the message.
  - `Receiver`: Receiver is the person to whom the message is being sent to.
  - `Medium:` It is the medium through which the message is sent. For example: A Modem.
  - `Protocol:` These are some set of rules which govern data communication.

<br>
<br>

---

<br>
<br>

# Line Configuration in Computer Networks

- A Network is nothing but a connection made through connection links between two or more devices. Devices can be a computer, printer or any other device that is capable to send and receive data. There are two ways to connect the devices :
  - Point-to-Point connection
  - Multipoint connection

### Point-To-Point Connection

- It is a protocol which is used as a communication link between two devices. It is simple to establish. The most common example for Point-to-Point connection (PPP) is a computer connected by telephone line. We can connect the two devices by means of a pair of wires or using a microwave or satellite link.
  
  Example: Point-to-Point connection between remote control and Television for changing the channels.

### Multi-Point Connection

- It is also called Multidrop configuration. In this connection two or more devices share a single link. There are two kinds of Multipoint Connections :
  - If the links are used simultaneously between many devices, then it is spatially shared line configuration.
  - If user takes turns while using the link, then it is time shared (temporal) line configuration.

<br>
<br>

---

<br>
<br>

# Types of Network Topology

- Network Topology is the schematic description of a network arrangement, connecting various nodes(sender and receiver) through lines of connection. 

### BUS Topology

- `features` --
  - transmits data only in one direction.
  - Every device is connected to a single cable

- `Advantages` --
  - Its cost effective.
  - Cable required is least compared to other network topology.
  - Used in small networks.
  - Easy to expand joining two cables together.
  
- `Disadvantages` --
  - Main busline cable fails then whole network fails.
  - If network traffic is heavy or nodes are more the performance of the network decreases.
  - Cable has a limited length.
  - It is slower than the ring topology.

### RING Topology

- `Features` -- 
  - A number of repeaters are used for Ring topology with large number of nodes, because if someone wants to send some data to the last node in the ring topology with 100 nodes, then the data will have to pass through 99 nodes to reach the 100th node. Hence to prevent data loss repeaters are used in the network.
  - The transmission is unidirectional, but it can be made bidirectional by having 2 connections between each Network Node, it is called Dual Ring Topology.
  - In Dual Ring Topology, two ring networks are formed, and data flow is in opposite direction in them. Also, if one ring fails, the second ring can act as a backup, to keep the network up.
  - Data is transferred in a sequential manner that is bit by bit. Data transmitted, has to pass through each node of the network, till the destination node.

- `Advantages` -- 
  - Cheap to install and expand
  - Transmitting network is not affected by high traffic or by adding more nodes

- `Disadvantages` --
  - Troubleshooting is difficult in ring topology.
  - Adding or deleting the computers disturbs the network activity.
  - Failure of one computer disturbs the whole network.

### Star Topology

- `Features` -- 
  - Every node has its own dedicated connection to the hub.
  - Hub acts as a repeater for data flow.

- `Advantages` --
  - Fast performance with few nodes and low network traffic.
  - Hub can be upgraded easily.
  - Easy to troubleshoot.
  - Easy to setup and modify.
  - Only that node is affected which has failed, rest of the nodes can work smoothly

- `Disadvantages` --
  - Cost of installation is high.
  - Expensive to use.
  - If the hub fails then the whole network is stopped because all the nodes depend on the hub.
  - Performance is based on the hub that is it depends on its capacity

### MESH Topology

- `Features` --
  - Fully connected.
  - Robust
  - Not flexible.

- `Advantages` --
  - Each connection can carry its own data load.
  - It is robust.
  - Fault is diagnosed easily.
  - Provides security and privacy.

- `Disadvantages` --
  - Installation and configuration is difficult
  - Cabling cost is more.
  - Bulk wiring is required.
  
### TREE Topology

- `Features` --
  - Ideal if workstations are located in groups.
  - Used in Wide Area Network.

- `Advantages` --
  - Extension of bus and star topologies.
  - Expansion of nodes is possible and easy.
  - Easily managed and maintained
  - Error detection is easily done.

- `Disadvantages` --
  - Heavily cabled.
  - Costly.
  - If more nodes are added maintenance is difficult.
  - Central hub fails, network fails.

### HYBRID Topology

- `Features` --
  - It is a combination of two or more topologies
  - Inherits the advantages and disadvantages of the topologies included

- `Advantages` --
  - Reliable as Error detecting and trouble shooting is easy.
  - Effective
  - Scalable as size can be increased easily.
  - Flexible.

- `Disadvantages` --
  - Complex in design. 
  - Costly

<br>
<br>

---

<br>
<br>

# Transmission Nodes

- Transmission mode refers to the mechanism of transferring of data between two devices connected over a network. It is also called `Communication Mode`. These modes direct the direction of flow of information. There are three types of transmission modes. They are:
  - Simplex Mode
  - Half duplex Mode
  - Full duplex Mode

### SIMPLEX Mode

- In this type of transmission mode, data can be sent only in one direction i.e. communication is unidirectional. We cannot send a message back to the sender

  Examples of simplex Mode are loudspeakers, television broadcasting, television and remote, keyboard and monitor etc.

### HALF DUPLEX Mode

- Half-duplex data transmission means that data can be transmitted in both directions on a signal carrier, but not at the same time.

  Example of half duplex is a walkie- talkie in which message is sent one at a time but messages are sent in both the directions.

### FULL DUPLEX Mode

- In full duplex system we can send data in both the directions as it is bidirectional at the same time in other words, data can be sent in both directions simultaneously.

  Example of Full Duplex is a Telephone Network in which there is communication between two persons by a telephone line, using which both can talk and listen at the same time.

<Br>
<br>
 
---

<br>
<br>

# Transmission Mediums

- Data is represented by computers and other telecommunication devices using signals. Signals are transmitted in the form of electromagnetic energy from one device to another. Electromagnetic signals travel through vacuum, air or other transmission mediums to move from one point to another(from sender to receiver).

  Electromagnetic energy (includes electrical and magnetic fields) consists of power, voice, visible light, radio waves, ultraviolet light, gamma rays etc.

  Transmission medium is the means through which we send our data from one place to another. The first layer (physical layer) of Communication Networks OSI Seven layer model is dedicated to the transmission media

- `Factors to be considered while selecting a Transmission Medium` --
  - Transmission Rate
  - Cost and Ease of Installation
  - Resistance to Environmental Conditions
  - Distances

<br>
<br>

---

<br>
<br>

# Bounded/Guided Transmission Media

- A signal travelling along any of these media is directed and contained by the physical limits of the medium. Twisted-pair and coaxial cable use metallic (copper) conductors that accept and transport signals in the form of electric current. Optical fibre is a cable that accepts and transports signals in the form of light.

### Twisted Pair Cable

- This cable is the most commonly used and is cheaper than others. It is lightweight, cheap, can be installed easily, and they support many different types of network

  Twisted Pair is of two types:
  - `Unshielded Twisted Pair (UTP)`
  - `Shielded Twisted Pair (STP)`
  
- `Unshielded Twisted Pair Cable` --
  Advantages:
  - Installation is easy
  - Flexible
  - Cheap
  - It has high speed capacity,
  - 100 meter limit
  - Higher grades of UTP are used in LAN technologies like Ethernet.
  
  Disadvantages:
  - Bandwidth is low when compared with Coaxial Cable
  - Provides less protection from interference.
  
- `Shielded Twisted Pair Cable` --
  Advantages:
  - Easy to install
  - Performance is adequate
  - Can be used for Analog or Digital transmission
  - Increases the signalling rate
  - Higher capacity than unshielded twisted pair
  - Eliminates crosstalk
  
  Disadvantages:
  - Difficult to manufacture
  - Heavy

### Coaxial Cable

- Coaxial is called by this name because it contains two conductors that are parallel to each other. Copper is used in this as centre conductor which can be a solid wire or a standard one. It is surrounded by PVC installation, a sheath which is encased in an outer conductor of metal foil, barid or both.

- `Advantages of Coaxial Cable` --
  - Bandwidth is high
  - Used in long distance telephone lines.
  - Transmits digital signals at a very high rate of 10Mbps.
  - Much higher noise immunity
  - Data transmission without distortion.
  - The can span to longer distance at higher speeds as they have better shielding when compared to twisted pair cable

- `Disadvantages of Coaxial Cable` --
  - Single cable failure can fail the entire network.
  - Difficult to install and expensive when compared with twisted pair.
  - If the shield is imperfect, it can lead to grounded loop.

- `Applications of Coaxial Cable` --
  - Coaxial cable was widely used in analog telephone networks, where a single coaxial network could carry 10,000 voice signals.
  - Cable TV networks also use coaxial cables. 
  - In traditional Ethernet LANs. Because of it high bandwidth, and consequence high data rate, coaxial cable was chosen for digital transmission in early Ethernet LANs.

### Fiber Optic Cable

- A fibre-optic cable is made of glass or plastic and transmits signals in the form of light.

- `Advantages of Fibre Optic Cable` --
  - Higher bandwidth
  - Less signal attenuation
  - Immunity to electromagnetic interference
  - Resistance to corrosive materials
  - Light weight
  - Greater immunity to tapping

- `Disadvantages of Fibre Optic Cable` --
  - Installation and maintenance
  - Unidirectional light propagation
  - High Cost

- `Performance of Fibre Optic Cable` --
  - Often found in backbone networks because its wide bandwidth is cost-effective.
  - Some cable TV companies use a combination of optical fibre and coaxial cable thus creating a hybrid network.

<br>
<br>

---

<br>
<br>

# UnBounded/UnGuided Transmission Media 





